<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<HTML>
 <HEAD>
   <TITLE> [Openocd-development] RFC: uint32_t vrs u32 - et al
   </TITLE>
   <LINK REL="Index" HREF="http://lists.berlios.de/pipermail/openocd-development/2009-May/index.html" >
   <LINK REL="made" HREF="mailto:openocd-development%40lists.berlios.de?Subject=Re%3A%20%5BOpenocd-development%5D%20RFC%3A%20uint32_t%20vrs%20u32%20-%20et%20al&In-Reply-To=%3CA9E7BD6C-CC56-4556-B779-0739A4965E49%40kc8apf.net%3E">
   <META NAME="robots" CONTENT="index,nofollow">
   <style type="text/css">
       pre {
           white-space: pre-wrap;       /* css-2.1, curent FF, Opera, Safari */
           }
   </style>
   <META http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=us-ascii">
   <LINK REL="Previous"  HREF="007322.html">
   <LINK REL="Next"  HREF="007331.html">
 </HEAD>
 <BODY BGCOLOR="#ffffff">
   <H1>[Openocd-development] RFC: uint32_t vrs u32 - et al</H1>
    <B>Rick Altherr</B> 
    <A HREF="mailto:openocd-development%40lists.berlios.de?Subject=Re%3A%20%5BOpenocd-development%5D%20RFC%3A%20uint32_t%20vrs%20u32%20-%20et%20al&In-Reply-To=%3CA9E7BD6C-CC56-4556-B779-0739A4965E49%40kc8apf.net%3E"
       TITLE="[Openocd-development] RFC: uint32_t vrs u32 - et al">kc8apf at kc8apf.net
       </A><BR>
    <I>Tue May 26 02:40:21 CEST 2009</I>
    <P><UL>
        <LI>Previous message: <A HREF="007322.html">[Openocd-development] RFC: uint32_t vrs u32 - et al
</A></li>
        <LI>Next message: <A HREF="007331.html">[Openocd-development] RFC: uint32_t vrs u32 - et al
</A></li>
         <LI> <B>Messages sorted by:</B> 
              <a href="date.html#7326">[ date ]</a>
              <a href="thread.html#7326">[ thread ]</a>
              <a href="subject.html#7326">[ subject ]</a>
              <a href="author.html#7326">[ author ]</a>
         </LI>
       </UL>
    <HR>  
<!--beginarticle-->
<PRE>
On May 25, 2009, at 5:07 PM, Zach Welch wrote:

&gt;<i> On Mon, 2009-05-25 at 16:02 -0700, Rick Altherr wrote:
</I>&gt;&gt;<i> On May 25, 2009, at 3:37 PM, Zach Welch wrote:
</I>&gt;&gt;<i>
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> The opposing patch is attached.  As I already mentioned, it is
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> large,
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> but the changes were done entirely with the following commands:
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i>
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> find . -name \*.[ch] -exec sed -i .old -e 's/u8/uint8_t/g' {} \;
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> find . -name \*.[ch] -exec sed -i .old -e 's/u16/uint16_t/g' {}  
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> \;
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> find . -name \*.[ch] -exec sed -i .old -e 's/u32/uint32_t/g' {}  
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> \;
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> find . -name \*.[ch] -exec sed -i .old -e 's/u64/uint64_t/g' {}  
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> \;
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i>
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> find . -name \*.[ch] -exec sed -i .old -e 's/_uint8_t/_uint8/
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> g' {} \;
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> find . -name \*.[ch] -exec sed -i .old -e 's/_uint16_t/_uint16/
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> g' {} \;
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> find . -name \*.[ch] -exec sed -i .old -e 's/_uint32_t/_uint32/
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> g' {} \;
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> find . -name \*.[ch] -exec sed -i .old -e 's/_uint64_t/_uint64/
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> g' {} \;
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i>
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> The first set just do a bulk rename of the types, but it also
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> changes
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> function names.  Since it looks odd to include the _t in a  
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> function
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> name, the second set changes the pattern used for function  
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> names to
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> not include the _t.
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i>
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> I hate it.  You seriously want to make all of the functions that
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> referred to u16 or u32 to now refer to uint16 and uint32???  This
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> was
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> _exactly_ what I meant when I said a patch would be hard to  
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> create.
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i>
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i>
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> It wasn't hard to create at all.  Eight find and replaces is all it
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> took.  Less than 10 minutes.
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;<i>
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> It was incomplete and would probably raise objections from others.
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;<i>
</I>&gt;&gt;<i>
</I>&gt;&gt;<i> How was it incomplete?  It still compiled and I saw no obvious
</I>&gt;&gt;<i> errors.  The only contentious portion is the changing of a the
</I>&gt;&gt;<i> function names that included uX.
</I>&gt;<i>
</I>&gt;<i> 1) Does not update the style guide.
</I>&gt;<i> 2) Does not include inttypes.h or stdint.h unconditionally.
</I>&gt;<i> 3) Does not remove those headers from other files
</I>&gt;<i>
</I>&gt;<i> Basically, the rest of the work that I did in the patch that I posted.
</I>&gt;<i> Sure, that's all trivial, but they validate the point.
</I>&gt;<i>
</I>
If they are trivial, it doesn't validate your point.  Both patches are  
viable and easy to &quot;complete.&quot;

&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> Also, you do realize that the scope of these changes is _much_  
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> more
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> likely to be disruptive to anyone with out-of-tree changes in
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> progress?
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i>
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i>
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> Yup.  It is.  Sadly until we decide on all these various  
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> conventions,
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> things are always going to be disruptive to those with out-of-tree
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> changes.  At least in this case, syncing with ToT is relatively
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> simple.  Using minimal change as an argument for is dangerous.
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> Consider the local minimum effect.  To get to a better solution,  
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> you
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> might need to stir things up a bit in the short term.  The question
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> we
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> need to be asking is &quot;Do we do a big change now, or do we live  
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> with a
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> non-standard type system?&quot;
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;<i>
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> We are talking about 0.2.0.  Would you like to perform the risk/ 
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> reward
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> analysis of my patch versus yours, focusing on the impact they will
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> each
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> have on fixes being developed for the release?
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;<i>
</I>&gt;&gt;<i>
</I>&gt;&gt;<i> As we already know, the bulk of the work for 0.2.0 is in the tree
</I>&gt;&gt;<i> already.  In terms of risk/reward, both patches provide low reward  
</I>&gt;&gt;<i> for
</I>&gt;&gt;<i> low-medium risk.  I wouldn't really consider either for 0.2.0 just
</I>&gt;&gt;<i> because they don't really impact the users at all.  It's just a
</I>&gt;&gt;<i> consistency cleanup in the code.
</I>&gt;<i>
</I>&gt;<i> I would not bet on all changes being in the tree.  Too presumptuous.
</I>&gt;<i>
</I>
Considering we've been warning that the patches allowed into the tree  
are being restricted, most of the active people have contributed their  
patches so it will make it into 0.2.0.  If their patch isn't for  
0.2.0, then they should be prepared to do any updates necessary.

&gt;<i>
</I>&gt;<i> Actually, David Brownell agrees that it does fix bugs regarding
</I>&gt;<i> portability of the existing definitions in types.h.
</I>&gt;<i>
</I>&gt;<i> Perhaps your passion for this debate clouded your sight to that fact.
</I>&gt;<i>
</I>
Trust me, there is no passion on this end.  Only experience and  
willingness to &quot;do the right thing&quot;.  There are no reports of bugs  
encountered by users that are solved by changing the types with either  
patch for 0.2.0.  The only potential case is for Windows 64-bit since  
ints become 64-bit.  Otherwise, all of our platforms correctly map the  
types as defined.


&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> If anything, my frustration derives from the fact that -- as a
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> maintainer yourself -- you should have been looking at the consensus
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> that was already being expressed by the community and let it drop
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> sooner
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> than this (nevermind 0.2.0 considerations).  As a project leader, I
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> see
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> these kinds of debates as detrimental to being effective in a
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> community,
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> as it appears the individuals are unable resolve their points in an
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;<i> efficient and effective manner.
</I>&gt;&gt;&gt;<i>
</I>&gt;&gt;<i>
</I>&gt;&gt;<i> There is _no_ harm is having a discussion on alternatives.  It  
</I>&gt;&gt;<i> doesn't
</I>&gt;&gt;<i> make us any less efficient or effective.  It _does_ allow for both
</I>&gt;&gt;<i> side to show their cards and for the points to be clarified. I didn't
</I>&gt;&gt;<i> feel to need to &quot;just drop it&quot; because the arguments presented for  
</I>&gt;&gt;<i> the
</I>&gt;&gt;<i> short types were based on preference alone.  So far we've had a few
</I>&gt;&gt;<i> early opinions followed by a few long opinions.  Only you and I seem
</I>&gt;&gt;<i> to really be debating anything.  The majority in this case spoke  
</I>&gt;&gt;<i> early
</I>&gt;&gt;<i> and haven't really participated in any discussion.  There isn't a
</I>&gt;&gt;<i> consensus (implies everyone agrees) nor does there need to be one at
</I>&gt;&gt;<i> this stage.  Not every issue can be resolved solely on technical
</I>&gt;&gt;<i> merits and settled in a quick survey.
</I>&gt;<i>
</I>&gt;<i> There will never be consensus if you define it as &quot;everyone agrees&quot;.
</I>&gt;<i> That will never happen on these kinds of issues.
</I>&gt;<i>
</I>
Nor do I expect it to.  Consensus is the wrong word for all  
development decisions.  Majority rules seems to be the modus operandi  
here for all of its faults.

&gt;<i> Everything can be classified on a scale of right and wrong to you or  
</I>&gt;<i> me,
</I>&gt;<i> we just may not agree to share mutual scales of measurement.
</I>&gt;<i>
</I>&gt;<i> 1) I think it is wrong for a release manager to say &quot;we don't have any
</I>&gt;<i> real deadlines&quot;.  That severely undermines the position's authority.
</I>&gt;<i>
</I>
Clearly you haven't done release management before.  _Anyone_ who's  
done release management knows that the deadlines are advisory at  
best.  You can't release something that is broken even if it will take  
another week to fix it.  It doesn't undermine the position's authority  
in any way to realize this.  It just reinforces that the process for  
stabilizing the tree is more important than any specific date.  If  
there is a reason to delay a deadline, so be it.

&gt;<i> 2) I think it is wrong to say that we don't have &quot;management&quot;.  The
</I>&gt;<i> project has started to provide singular guides for being a  
</I>&gt;<i> &quot;responsible&quot;
</I>&gt;<i> developer within the OpenOCD project.  Such responsibilities are
</I>&gt;<i> codified into policies like the Style Guide.  Those must be enforced  
</I>&gt;<i> by
</I>&gt;<i> someone granted the authority to do so.  No matter what you call those
</I>&gt;<i> people, they are performing management roles in the community.
</I>&gt;<i>
</I>
I meant more the people manager version of management rather than the  
project management sort.  Obviously we have the latter.  The former is  
the problematic bit.

&gt;<i> 3) It is wrong to believe no one needs to say when we must release or
</I>&gt;<i> what features we need.  That process will not reach &quot;consensus&quot;  
</I>&gt;<i> without
</I>&gt;<i> someone leading the way, setting deadlines, and enforcing them.
</I>&gt;<i>
</I>
You need someone to start the process, but the specifics are decided  
by the community, not an individual.  Thus, the community decides what  
features are necessary or when we should do the next release.

&gt;<i> It is better to make a &quot;wrong&quot; decision that is &quot;right&quot; today and  
</I>&gt;<i> fix it
</I>&gt;<i> when it becomes a problem.  The alternative (true consensus building)
</I>&gt;<i> will result in a product that I will not want to use.  It will be slow
</I>&gt;<i> to produce because of its design-by-committee nature: a total  
</I>&gt;<i> nightmare.
</I>&gt;<i>
</I>
Most programmers put too much stock in the idea of rapid development.   
90% of programming is design and discussion.  10% is writing code.  If  
you put a little more time into the design, you can avoid having to  
fix those many problems originating from the &quot;right at the time&quot; items.

&gt;<i> Further, a truly benevolent dictator would recognize consequences to
</I>&gt;<i> temporary solutions and realize a plan for correcting them (as  
</I>&gt;<i> necessary
</I>&gt;<i> and when resources permit).
</I>
Correct.  Which is why taking neither patch for 0.2.0 is fine (the  
consequences are minimal and unlikely to be encountered) and coming up  
with a plan on how to properly fix it is a good idea.

&gt;<i> But really, we're talking about managers,
</I>&gt;<i> not dictators; it _is_ open source, and a bad manager should be
</I>&gt;<i> summarily dismissed or exiled.  Still, they are required by projects
</I>&gt;<i> that want to get things done without endless debates (like this one).
</I>&gt;<i>
</I>
Actually, many projects thrive on the concept of committees.  They are  
neither managers nor dictators but serve to keep the goals of the  
project in check against the wishes of the masses.  They don't kill  
all debates just to save time.  The debates just move into a separate  
discussion between the committee members only.  This &quot;endless debate&quot;  
has already progressed beyond the original topic.  That past few  
messages have been solely about project management technique and  
community input.


&gt;<i> If anything, the people doing such work in this community need to be
</I>&gt;<i> granted the authority to carry out their responsibilities efficiently
</I>&gt;<i> and effectively.  That means making independent decisions after taking
</I>&gt;<i> input from the community.  However, this thread is not already covered
</I>&gt;<i> by any existing cases, as the community does not recognize a singular
</I>&gt;<i> individual as the System Architect.  Perhaps this shows we need one.
</I>&gt;<i>
</I>
Even if there was one, I would hope that they would actually let  
discussions go on to allow for input and collaboration between the  
sides.  The outcome of such discussions is frequently positive.  The  
fear of &quot;design by committee&quot; is generally brought on by a  
misunderstanding of how that occurs.

Seeing as how the original point was lost long ago, I have no  
intentions of responding further to this thread.  Ultimately for  
0.2.0, both proposed patches have widespread impact and low reward.   
Neither contributes to the goals of the 0.2.0 release.

Rick
-------------- next part --------------
A non-text attachment was scrubbed...
Name: smime.p7s
Type: application/pkcs7-signature
Size: 2446 bytes
Desc: not available
URL: &lt;<A HREF="https://lists.berlios.de/pipermail/openocd-development/attachments/20090525/9308e648/attachment.bin">https://lists.berlios.de/pipermail/openocd-development/attachments/20090525/9308e648/attachment.bin</A>&gt;
</PRE>

<!--endarticle-->
    <HR>
    <P><UL>
        <!--threads-->
	<LI>Previous message: <A HREF="007322.html">[Openocd-development] RFC: uint32_t vrs u32 - et al
</A></li>
	<LI>Next message: <A HREF="007331.html">[Openocd-development] RFC: uint32_t vrs u32 - et al
</A></li>
         <LI> <B>Messages sorted by:</B> 
              <a href="date.html#7326">[ date ]</a>
              <a href="thread.html#7326">[ thread ]</a>
              <a href="subject.html#7326">[ subject ]</a>
              <a href="author.html#7326">[ author ]</a>
         </LI>
       </UL>

<hr>
<a href="https://lists.berlios.de/mailman/listinfo/openocd-development">More information about the Openocd-development
mailing list</a><br>
</body></html>
